# Sec. 55 - Borrowing power of city generally; bond authorization ordinances; procedure for borrowing; pledging of faith and credit of city; tax levy for payment of indebtedness.

In addition to any other borrowing power which the city may presently have, from whatever source derived, and notwithstanding any other provision or limitation of public general or public local law:

1. The city may borrow money and incur indebtedness, from time to time, for any public purpose, and evidence that borrowing or indebtedness by the issue and sale of its general obligation bonds, notes issued in anticipation thereof, or other evidences of indebtedness (hereinafter collectively referred to as "bonds").

1. All bonds shall be authorized by ordinance, which ordinance shall not be subject to the referendum provisions of section 12 of this Charter and shall be fully effective upon its final passage. The council shall have the power to determine by such ordinance the form and terms and all other matters concerning the issuance and sale of the bonds, including, without limitation:

    1. The manner of sale of such bonds, which may be by private negotiation without notice of sale or solicitation of competitive bids;

    1. The purchase price for such bonds, which may be at, above or below the par value thereof;

    1. The medium of payment therefor, which may be cash or other consideration;

    1. The rate or rates of interest payable on such bonds, which may vary from time to time; such bonds may be non-interest bearing; and

    1. The date or dates of maturity of such bonds.

1. The city may pay the maturing principal of and interest on bonds, to the extent practicable, from the revenues, if any, of the particular project or improvement for which the bonds were issued, notwithstanding any limitation contained in any other law.

1. In addition to any other sources of payment for the principal of and interest on the bonds, the city may also pay the maturing principal of and interest on such bonds, in whole or in part, from the proceeds of such capital contribution charges, connection charges (including area connection charges related to the cost of base plant construction as well as the actual cost of connection), ready to serve charges, service charges, charges for upkeep, and any other charges or impositions as the city may levy, impose and collect from time to time during the life of such bonds, the power and authority so to do being hereby specifically granted, notwithstanding any limitation contained in any other law.

1. In addition to any other sources of payment for the principal of and interest on such bonds, the city may also pay the maturing principal of and interest on such bonds, in whole or in part, from the proceeds of such benefit assessments as the city may levy, impose and collect from time to time during the life of such bonds, the power and authority so to do being hereby specifically granted, notwithstanding any limitation contained in any other law.

1. If the bonds issued pursuant to this section are in the form of bond anticipation notes, the principal of and interest on such notes shall be payable to the bearer or registered holder thereof out of the first proceeds of sale of the bonds in anticipation of which such notes were issued, or from tax or other revenues which shall have been previously determined and applied to the payment of the notes and the interest thereon.

1. The issuance of such bonds shall constitute a pledge of the full faith and credit of the city to the payment of the principal of and interest on such obligations when due; the prompt payment of the principal of and interest on such bonds shall be made from unlimited ad valorem taxation and other revenues lawfully available for the purpose described in the authorizing ordinance or ordinances. In any event, the city shall annually levy upon all property subject to taxation within its corporate limits ad valorem taxes sufficient to provide, together with any other funds lawfully available for the purpose, for the payment of the maturing principal of and interest on such bonds, without limitation as to rate or amount.

1. Nothing contained in this section shall be deemed or construed to impair the terms or conditions of any bonds of the city issued prior to the effective date of this section.

*(Ord. No. CA-5-82, ยง 1)*