# Sec. 18 - City manager.

1. The council shall appoint an officer of the city who shall have the title of city manager and shall have the powers and perform the duties in this Charter provided and as may be otherwise assigned to him, not inconsistent with this Charter. Neither the mayor nor any member of the council shall receive such appointment during the term for which he shall have been elected, nor within one year after expiration of his term.

1. The city manager shall be chosen by the council solely on the basis of his executive and administrative qualifications with reference to his actual experience in, or his knowledge of, accepted practice in respect to the duties of his office as hereinafter set forth. He need not be a resident of the city.

1. The city manager shall receive such compensation as the council shall fix from time to time.

1. The council shall appoint the city manager for an indefinite term and may remove him by a majority vote of its members. At least thirty (30) days before such removal shall become effective, the council shall, by a majority vote of its members, adopt a preliminary resolution stating the reasons for his removal. The city manager may reply in writing and may request a public hearing, which shall be held not earlier than twenty (20) days nor later than thirty (30) days after the filing of such request. After such public hearing, if one be requested, and after full consideration, the council by majority vote of its members may adopt a final resolution of removal. By the preliminary resolution the council may suspend the city manager from duty, but shall in any case cause him to be paid forthwith any unpaid balance of his salary and his salary for the next two (2) calendar months following adoption of the preliminary resolution.

1. Neither the council nor any of its members shall direct or request the appointment of any person to, or his removal from office by the city manager or by any of his subordinates. Except for the purpose of inquiry, the council and its members shall deal with the administrative service solely through the city manager, and neither the council nor any member thereof shall give orders to any subordinates of the city manager either publicly or privately.

1. The city manager shall see that the ordinances of the city are faithfully executed and shall be the chief executive officer and the head of the administrative branch of the city government.

1. The city manager shall be responsible to the mayor and council for the proper administration of all affairs of the city and, to that end, subject to the personnel ordinance of the city, he shall have power and shall be required to:

    1. Appoint and, when necessary for the good of the service, suspend or remove all officers and employees of the city, except as otherwise provided by this Charter and except as he may authorize the head of a department or office to appoint, suspend or remove subordinates in such department or office;

    1. Prepare the budget annually and submit it to the council and be responsible for its administration after adoption;

    1. Perform such other duties as may be prescribed by ordinance, or required of him by the mayor and council, not inconsistent with this Charter.

    1. In the event of the suspension, removal, resignation or death of the city manager, the council may by resolution, designate an officer of the city as acting city manager to perform the duties of the city manager for such period as may be necessary.

    1. In the event of temporary absence or disability of the city manager, the city manager may designate an officer of the city as acting city manager to perform his duties during his temporary absence or disability. In the event of failure of the city manager to make such designation, or, if the council shall not concur in the designation by the city manager, the council may, by resolution, appoint an officer of the city to perform the duties of the city manager until he shall return or his disability shall cease.

    1. Where designation of an acting city manager by the council is provided for above, the mayor may designate such acting city manager to serve until the next meeting of the council.

*(Ord. No. CA-9-74)*