# Sec. 74 - Same-Procedure.

The procedure for special assessments shall be as follows:

1. The cost of the project being charged for shall be assessed according to the front foot rule of apportionment or some other equitable basis determined by the council.

1. The amount assessed against any property for any project or improvement shall not exceed the value of the benefits accruing to the property therefrom, nor shall any special assessment be levied which shall cause the total amount of special assessment levied by the city and outstanding against any improved property at any time, exclusive of delinquent installments, to exceed twenty-five per centum of the assessed value of the improved property after giving effect to the benefit accruing thereto from the project or improvement for which assessed.

1. When desirable, the affected property may be divided into different classes to be charged different rates, but except for this, any rate shall be uniform.

1. All special assessment charges shall be levied by the council by ordinance. Before levying any special assessment charges, the council shall hold a public hearing. The city manager shall cause notice to be given stating the nature and extent of the proposed project, the kind of material to be used, the estimated cost of the project, the portion of the cost to be assessed, the number of installments in which the assessment may be paid, the method to be used in apportioning the cost, and the limits of the proposed area of assessment. The notice shall also state the time and place at which all persons interested, or their agents or attorneys, may appear before the council and be heard concerning the proposed project and special assessment. Such notice shall be given by sending a copy thereof by mail to the persons in whose names the property is proposed to be assessed are assessed for ad valorem taxation and by publication of a copy of the notice at least once. The city manager shall present at the hearing a certificate of publication and mailing of copies of the notice, which certificate shall be deemed proof of notice, but failure of any owner to receive the mailed copy shall not invalidate the proceedings. The date of hearing shall be set at least ten and not more than thirty days after the city manager shall have completed publication and service of notice as provided in this section. Following the hearing, the council, in its discretion, may vote to proceed with the project and may levy the special assessment.

1. The city manager shall, promptly after the adoption of an ordinance levying a special assessment, mail a copy thereof for each property assessed, to the person in whose name such property is assessed for ad valorem taxation purpose.

1. Any person whose property is assessed pursuant to this section shall have a right of appeal from such assessment to the Circuit Court for Montgomery County within thirty days after the date of mailing such copy of such ordinance.

1. Special assessments may be made payable in annual or more frequent installments over such period of time, not to exceed ten years and in such manner as the council may determine. The council shall determine on what date installments shall be due and payable. Interest may be charged on installments at the rate to be determined by the council.

1. All special assessment installments shall be overdue six months after the date on which they become due and payable. All special assessments shall be liens on the property and all overdue special assessments shall be collected in the same manner as city taxes or by suit at law.

*(Res. No. CA-3-10, ยง 1, 6-7-2010, eff. 7-27-2010)*